# WHAT-ARE-YOUR-EVERYDAY-BREAKFAST-CHOICES-DO-YOU-KNOW-IF-THEY-ARE-NOURISHING-YOUR-BODY-
Breakfast in India We have all grown up eating breakfasts that were influenced by where we lived in India. This country, with its vast and diverse cultures, has millions of recipes that one can try for breakfast. Various grains, vegetables, fruits and types of preparations make it to the table every morning in all households. Sometimes, in urban cities, one can see that every person is eating a different breakfast sitting at the same table. In areas where the socio-economic status is a little poor – grains, millets and vegetables that grow off the land are staple food choices. One can find everything from stuffed parathas, chole bhature, dhokla, sprouts, puri and potato bhaji, idli, upma, dosa, eggs, sandwiches, curries, cereals, and so much more! The importance of Breakfast Hearing "Breakfast is the most important meal of the day" is something we've all grown up with. There is ample truth to this statement. As the word suggests, we are breaking our fast. The considerable gap between dinner and waking up puts the body into a state of fasting and the longer one stays in this state, the body's metabolism is impacted. By the 8th hour of fasting, the liver has used up all its glucose resources and therefore, eating a nutritious and wholesome breakfast like muesli without refined sugar, plant-based granola or any other healthy breakfast options in India, restores the glucose levels. It must also be understood that skipping meals causes hunger pangs that then forces us to eat larger amounts and untimely meals. This can cause blood insulin spikes which can cause the body’s metabolism to slow down. The evolution of breakfast in India With the impact of globalisation and the influence of the western world creeping into our everyday lives, it has become more and more apparent that India is facing a health crisis. This can be attributed to various factors. Firstly, due to globalisation, we have access to more packaged food that is brought in from abroad. Secondly, the internet and social media plays an important role in influencing our food choices. Thirdly, work culture has increased the work-load as well as the level of competitiveness – which has, in turn, made us pay less attention to our food intake and forced us to eat out of a box. Breakfast used to be a freshly cooked meal in every household in this country till a few years ago. So much so, that even lunch and evening snacks were packed and sent to schools with children and office with adults. Now, if it comes in a packet, and is labelled healthy/baked/high protein etc., we just ‘grab it and go’. However, some of the best breakfast products in India, can match claims – but you just have to know how to pick them! The importance of nutritious breakfast Breakfast tends to be a meal that includes foods that are rich in nutrients such as calcium, iron, B Vitamins, fiber and folates. Since we haven’t eaten for long hours before breakfast, it also tends to be one of the meals that provides a large amount of the day’s nutrient intake. Studies have shown that people who eat breakfast tend to meet their daily nutrient needs as compared to those who don’t eat breakfast. Optimally nutritious breakfasts are ideal to boost your energy levels and keep your metabolism levels up for the day. Is your breakfast nourishing your body? A nourishing breakfast has the perfect combination of fiber, antioxidants, minerals, vitamins, protein, carbohydrates and good fats. All of these food groups are essential after your body has been in a state of fasting over the last several hours. Even if you have a tight schedule or an early commute, somethings can be prepared the night before or in a matter of minutes such as overnight oats with nuts and seeds, sourdough toasts with eggs, fresh fruit and veggie smoothies, muesli without refined sugar, berry almond granola, hazelnut mocha granola etc. Making a breakfast choice that suits your body’s needs in terms of nutritional requirements, health status, level of physical activity, as well as, preferences is becoming easier nowadays. In this ever-changing world of food and nutrition, there are so many healthy breakfast options in India, be it plant-based granola or gluten-free sugar-free muesli. There has been an emergence of nutrition backed brands, that are giving the masses access to some of the best breakfast products in India. One such brand is, Divine Flavour. Their honest breakfast products like Cranberry Pistachio Muesli, Banana Walnut Muesli, and baked crunchy granola options are truly filled with goodness whilst still tantalizing the tastebuds. To know more: https://www.divineflavour.com/product-page/baked-crunchy-dark-chocolate-walnut-granola-india
